# Entry 6
##### 5/13/26
## Context
Alright, so this will probably be the last blog I do for SEP11. Meaning this blog won't be as lengthly as the previous blogs as this blogs mainly focuses on my experiences and takeaways during my in-class presentation for my SEP11 freedom project and my experiences and takeaways during my SEP11 freedom project expo. Also just to give an reminder, for this year's SEP11 freedom project, I am working with one of my classmate peer in my class. So this will be an duo project. Anyways, let's dive in into the content
# Content
### In-class Presentation
<p>This year's in-class presentation for SEP11 freedom project was defintietly a whole lot better than last year's SEP10 freedom project. If you need an reminder; for last year SEP10's freedom project I used the tool aframe and created an website using HTML, CSS and bootstrap that explores the topic of animation. However for this year I am doing something different which is creating an dungeon alike game. So for the in-class presentation, since I am working with an parner we are splitting up our roles. My partner will do the hook since, I'm not saying I can't do an hook but I just feel like my partner have an better way to introduce our topic towards the audience. </p>
<p>Then each of us will explain a certain part of the code within our game and explain the challenges encountered. Then lastly for the takeaway's my partner will talk about two of the takeaways while I do the last one. Now let me describe the process of how everything went down. So for the intro, my partner did the hook then we moved on. Oh yea I forgot I was doing the casual demo. To be honest I was a bit scared to the casual demo infront of the whole class, since I'm afraid to accidentally died to an spike and lose a life or missing a jump on platform.</p>
<p>BUT gladly everything went smoothly with the casual demo. I showed off the key system for sprite movement, the death system, the coin system, and all the levels included within our game. Then after the casual demo process. I explained one of my code and an challenge. For my code specfically I mainly talked about setFlipx. This is an code that basically when enables allows the sprite reflect over towards another direction. Because since if the user presses the d key the sprite will turn right, however if setflipx is enable it will reflect our sort of the y-axis. But what's funny is that during my time explaining that code, I DID NOT say y-axis.</p>
<p>I said the x-axis...Because think about it, if its the x-axis then it will go below of the character not reflect to the otherside. Then my partner explained his code and the challenge, then lastly for the takeaways everything went pretty smooth. By the end of the presentation I was kind of suprised when our teacher came up to the board and need an ruler and taping something. Since he specfically pointed out our project and want to clarfiy that x-axis would be technically wrong for the demonstration, but he understands that it's a bit difficult and an complicated concept to grasped, and would not deduct points for it.</p>
<p>Because I was actually so scared and afraid that he was going to say "you failed the presesntation and the whole code process is wrong" but thankfully it was not(the wording is) and he gave me and my partner an 19.5/20. The feedback I recieved from my teacher is definitely making more eye contact, since I do think that during the whole presentation time I was kind of glue to the smart board and the screen while having minium eye contact. The only good amount of eye contact I had was during the end when I was doing my takeaway and not needing the code. And pretty much that's the whole process of the presentation. </p>
<p>Some takeaways from this project that I want to mention is, be confident, have emotions and having eye contact, speak clear. Having all these components makes an someone an good speaker and an good presenter. Since you want to appear and appeal to your audience that you are confident of what you are saying, and also that you care about your presentation and wants the audience to engaged and carefully listen what you are presenting. For those who want to take an peek and examine our</p> <a href = "https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kXB_q91q4sR2KUdTuQarDFnusky3TqUpdf3cI6WprTs/edit?usp=sharing">slide show presentation</a>
and this is for the [presentation prep](../entry06.md)

### Expo/Elevator Pitch
<p>Okay so the end of year expo was actually a bit more easier than the in-class presentation. For anyone's first time and need an context. So every year during the end of the freedom project, we always have to do an expo to showcase what we have made year long. And so to prepare for that we practice our elevator pitch then we present and speak it during our expo. Also, another thing to mention is that there are judges grading our project, mainly 3 this time not seniors. Last year during SEP10 I believe there were more judges than this year. Anyways, so what an elevator pitch is basically an short 60 second information summary of what your project is about, what it does and how does it work.</p>
<p>So because me and my partner's project was based on the genre of a dungeon game we shouldn't fully explain every concept detailed but give an basic brief overview. Basically our plan was this: my partner would do the talking and I would demonstrate the concepts he is describing within our game. And sometimes if something I want to mention that he didn't yet mention, I would step in and add on to him. But first we practiced in-class elevator pitch first. And everything pretty went as accordingly to how we wanted it to be. Just that we would to shrink that time to as little as not exceeding 60 seconds, as anything over that would lose the interest of other people.</p>
<p>Then came the expo day. I don't if this a good thing or bad thing but for this year, I feel that me and my partner got less people visitng our project than last year. Maybe our game isn't that appealing? Who knows? During the expo when the judges came, everything went accordingly as well. But the only flaw was that, I forgot to show one crucial part. Because our game theme is mostly focused around on hardcore mode, we did not show our last level, the actual hardcore mode to the judges. Since my partner was talking mostly, I don't know if I should step in and show the judges the level, since I'm afraid that if I do it might be rude and they would deduct point so I didn't. But my partner also kind of forgot to show it. But everything is still good. Even though we did not end up winning, we still had a fun time doing the expo, since we met new people, engaged and conversations.</p>

# EDP(Engineering Design Process)
I want to say in the EDP process we are probably at the process our improve and resdesign. Why exactly? Because even though we got feedback from our classmate during in-class MVP feedback, I wouldn't say our dungeon game is completely "perfect" in any way or form. I do feel like there is lot's of areas that we can definitely improve on. And there is probably bugs hidden within deep in our game. I think for some next steps that me and my partner could improve on could be working on the animations of our sprite. The reason why our sprite looks all blocky and non-alive is becasue animating would require lot's of time invested just that for animation. Because that would be beyond MVP. But I do feel like if the freedom project was extended to 3-4 months I think me and my partner would defintely gotten the job of animating our sprite done. That's pretty much the next steps and the goal in which me and my partner could be working towards in the nearby future for the EDP
# Skills
### Communication/Eye Contact/Speak Clearly
Yes, this is like an 3 in one skill. And these 3 skills are ESSENTIAL in your life. Since for sure in the future you are going have to be using them. All these 3 skills are required to present yourself as someone who is professional and shows that you care about how you present something. Since I'm sure in the future if you are working in an company and want to present something to your boss, you don't want to speak so little that your boss can't even hear you, or making no eye contact at all like you are avoiding him. Instead speak with confident and speak clearly, loud and proud and make eye contact no matter what is in your sight. You want to present yourself to your boss like you care for the company and care about the future for the company. This also is very important for school as well. Since ever since entering high-schooling I've been having more and more in-class presentations which I must say, I'm pretty much accumsted and is pretty much used to these presentation and these skills helped me a lot. Whereas in the beginning I was shy, afraid and making no eye contact. But I definintely a lot ever since then.
### Having an Elevator Pitch
I know I've said this for last's year skill for blog 7 as well, but I cannot say how important this is. If you are ever going to an networking connecting event in the future. ALWAYS like ALWAYS have an elevator pitch. An quck short 60 second overview summary about yourself, what you do, what you are looking for, goals is the best way to make someone be interested and network with others. Since I'm sure you don't want to go up to someone and give them a whole 30 minute speech about your life process and others unncessary things. But having an elevator pitch presents yourself as, professional, outstanding and is looking for oppourtinites.

[Previous](entry05.md) | [Next](entry07.md)

[Home](../README.md)
